The Project Gutenberg eBook, The Naughty Man; or, Sir Thomas Brown, by
Frank Chapman Bliss


This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and most
other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no restrictions 
whatsoever.  You may copy it, give it away or re-use it under the terms of
the Project Gutenberg License included with this eBook or online at 
www.gutenberg.org.  If you are not located in the United States, you'll have
to check the laws of the country where you are located before using this ebook.




Title: The Naughty Man; or, Sir Thomas Brown
       Love, Courtship and Marriage in High Life. A Poetical Satire


Author: Frank Chapman Bliss



Release Date: February 10, 2018  [eBook #56538]

Language: English

Character set encoding: UTF-8


***START OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NAUGHTY MAN; OR, SIR THOMAS
BROWN***


E-text prepared by MFR, David E. Brown, and the Online Distributed
Proofreading Team (http://www.pgdp.net) from page images generously made
available by Internet Archive (https://archive.org)



Note: Project Gutenberg also has an HTML version of this
      file which includes the original illustrations.
      See 56538-h.htm or 56538-h.zip:
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/56538/56538-h/56538-h.htm)
      or
      (http://www.gutenberg.org/files/56538/56538-h.zip)


      Images of the original pages are available through
      Internet Archive. See
      https://archive.org/details/naughtymanorsirt00blis


Transcriber’s note:

      Text in italics is surrounded by underscores: _italics_.





  [Illustration: PRICE, TWENTY-FIVE CENTS.

  The Naughty Man;

  or

  SIR THOMAS BROWN

  LOVE, COURTSHIP AND MARRIAGE IN HIGH LIFE

  A POETICAL SATIRE,

  BY

  OCTAVIUS.

  NEWARK, N. J.:
  F. C. BLISS & CO., PUBLISHERS.]


THE NAUGHTY MAN;
OR,
SIR THOMAS BROWN.

Love, Courtship and Marriage in High Life.

A Poetical Satire,

by

OCTAVIUS.






Newark, N. J.:
F. C. Bliss & Co., Publishers.
1878.

Copyright, 1878, by F. C. Bliss & Co.




THE NAUGHTY MAN;

OR,

SIR THOMAS BROWN.


I.

  Lessons we learn from what we daily see
  Of good or evil, if philosophy,
  Based on those great _First Truths_, will hold the mind
  Within its limits--happiness to find.
  Those great _First Truths_ will teach the human soul
  That the equator lies not at the pole,
  That man before his own nose cannot walk,
  That man without his palate cannot talk;
  That gravitation tends not to the sky,
  But to Earth’s center, should he try to fly.

  [Illustration]


II.

  Much of delusion mixed with truth we find,
  Strange whims, and twinings in the human mind:

  [Illustration]

  Delusions, fictions, foibles, glittering lies,
  Frescoed with truth, seem real as the skies.
  At the same table, sitting side by side,
  Oft we do see Humility and Pride,
  Wit, Genius, Learning, the great man of law,
  In social converse with the man of straw.
  Extremes oft meet around the festive board,
  An honest beggar and a thieving lord;
  Jew, Gentile, Greek, will with the Christian sit,
  Say grace, or not--it matters not a whit;
  They pass the time most pleasantly away,
  But cheat each other on the coming day.
  The rich, the poor, the freeman and the slave,
  The noble monarch and the princely knave,
  Are onward floating with the ebbing tide
  Down the great stream of life--on every side
  Dangers beset--on the storm-beaten coast
  Are wreck’d together--in the grave are lost.


III.

  If life is but gas, as some _savants_ say,
  Or caused by some general harmony,
  Or principle inherent in the blood,
  Or blood is life itself, as Hunter prov’d,
  What matters it? Doctors may disagree
  On subjects which concern not you or me.
  Most foolish things wise men have oft conceived;
  More foolish should we seem if we believed
  Their theories; for instance, they did plan
  A lofty tower, thus to enable man
  To clamber into Heaven. This “Babel”
  Seems to us unreal as a fable.
  But other “Babels” on the social stage
  Men oft have rear’d, e’en in their hoary age,
  Thinking therein true happiness to find,
  Sharing its joys with some congenial mind.
  If love, hope, courage, bind their hearts within,
  What care they for their neighbors, kith, or kin?


IV.

  Once on a time, not many days ago,
  When many taught there was no hell below,
  Not in the spring, or lovely month of May,
  When birds did sweetly sing, and fields look’d gay,
  When flowers were fresh, and opening buds were fair,
  When brides look’d lovely--blossoms in their hair;
  Oh, no! ’twas the last day of dying year,
  A raw, cold winter’s day, frosty and clear;
  What then took place, permit me to rehearse,
  Not in stale prose, but in more lively verse;
  And if, perchance, to make complete a rhyme,
  Or try to make a jingling couplet chime,
  I should speak boldly--but, of course, sincere--
  Don’t think the truth I utter too severe;
  And do not say--“thou little groveling elf,
  Turn thine eyes inward--look upon thyself.”
  Most flattering words from eager lips may fly,
  But shall I pause to harmonize a lie?
  If, with my pen, I use most comic art,
  To ’mend the manners, or reform the heart,
  Don’t think I do it out of any spite;
  Surely! I would not libel one, a mite.
  I use fictitious names--the facts I give
  In a mild form, to save the sensitive.


V.

  In the great city Gotham, near the sea,
  Where Queen Fashion rul’d the aristocracy,
  Lived the proud millionnaire, Sir Thomas Brown,
  With riches enough to purchase a crown;
  He had sons, and daughters settled in life,
  He was a widower, having no wife,
  True! he was old, being now eighty-three,
  But managed to get down to breakfast, and tea,
  His eyesight grown dim, and shaky his hand,
  Of course--needed help to button a band,

  [Illustration]

  In making his toilet--now, pray don’t stare--
  He wanted some one to comb out his hair,
  To brush his new teeth--put on his collar,
  To dust off his clothes, and things that follow.
  ’Tis true! it gave all the children pleasure,
  To dust, brush and scrub him without measure.
  Now this ancient relic of ages past,
  This human caricature, worthy of Nast,
  This feeble old man, one foot in the grave,
  Inspir’d by Cupid, at once became brave.
  So he hobbled around, seeking for Ruth,
  And found her a widow, blooming in youth.
  A widow! ah, yes! now that was a fact,
  Possessing much good sense in the abstract;
  Sir Thomas was human! why then complain?
  We are all human, in sunshine or rain.


VI.

  But who was Ruth? methinks I hear you say.
  I’ll answer in mine own peculiar way:
  Her eyes were sparkling--as brilliant and bright
  As glittering stars in a clear frosty night,

  [Illustration]

  Her head was bedecked with beautiful hair,
  Her teeth well preserved--her complexion fair,
  With a smiling face--lips red as a cherry,
  She would laugh, sing, and chat, ever make merry;
  A leader of fashions, lively and gay,
  She turned day into night--night into day;
  Most fully developed, with full rounded arms,
  No wonder frail men were struck with her charms;
  In London, Paris, on Italia’s soil,
  She played all her games according to Hoyle,
  She homage received from men of all ranks,
  Returned them no love--but simply her thanks.
  A pure, spotless virgin, true! she was not,
  But a superb widow! without a spot
  Or blemish to mar; a Venus in form;
  No wonder she took her lovers by storm.


VII.

  Now this human fossil, Sir Thomas Brown,
  Considered by some a fool, or a clown,
  By others--’mong whom, his children we name--
  As “_non compos mentis_,” being the same
  As out of his head, or out of his mind,
  No matter which, for in love we are blind,
  Having met Mrs. Ruth as stated before,
  He began at once to love and adore.
  “Just the thing,” quoth he, “for one of my age.
  Though friends may laugh and children may rage,
  I’ll offer my wealth, my heart and my name.
  If she but accepts, a nice little game
  We’ll play upon all; in secret we’ll wed,
  Regardless of others--no matter what’s said.”
  Strange things have happened, stranger to relate,
  How she, this buxom widow, as by fate,
  Selected this old man to be her mate.
  If Cupid does go with bows and arrows,
  If Venus does keep her coach and sparrows
  As some poets say, while others quibble.--
  Surely! these things help to explain the riddle.
  Not he who cannot love, but he who can,
  Shows the kind heart, and proves himself a man.


VIII.

  I need not tell how this Sir Thomas Brown,
  Made love to this lady of great renown,
  And offer’d this sweet and beautiful dame
  In accents most tender, his heart and name;
  How he was accepted, and on said day--
  The last of the year, he led her away
  To the Altar--the twain became one,
  In spite of his children, daughter and son.
  ’Twas nicely arranged, ’twas secretly planned--
  The bride--she looked sweet, the groom--he looked bland.
  No maids, no groomsmen attended them there,
  The Priest tied the knot with his usual care.
  Now married--they went at once to her home,
  For she lived in style, and almost alone,
  With servants, ’tis true--perhaps half-a-score,
  Including the one who guarded the door;
  And there for weeks, they in quiet remained,
  For seeking seclusion, cannot be blamed,
  He, now being blessed with a charming wife,
  She, to his comfort devoting her life;
  They laughed, and joked, and cut their capers,
  As they read together the morning papers.


IX.

  These papers, of course, were filled with the fun--
  The _Tribune_, the _World_, the _Times_ and the _Sun_,
  Each gave to the facts a different hue,
  And each one proclaimed its own statement true;
  Their big black bulletins chalked o’er in white,
  Gave all the _latest news_ from morn till night;
  Ofttimes, ’tis true, they made a huge blunder--
  _They must sell their papers--’tis no wonder!_
  Plaster and whitewash is the stuff they use--
  The pen is but a trowel to abuse.
  But why complain? at least ’tis unavailing;
  Why, such mistakes are but reporter’s failing;
  If they won’t fib what bounty can they crave?
  We pay for what we want--not what we have.


X.

  Like whirlwinds disturbing a night’s repose,
  Came whispered breathings; then loud cries arose,
  Some boldly cursed this matrimonial life,
  Some cursed the old man, and some cursed the wife.
  As ancient Hero’s are renown’d in song
  For rescuing virtue from the oppressor’s wrong,

  [Illustration]

  So let these stand on the historic page
  As the great living bombasts of the age;
  In the great sermons they do daily preach,
  In the great lessons they do daily teach,
  They ring the faults of others--not their own,
  They growl and snarl like a dog with his bone;
  They villify others--glorify self,
  Ofttimes they do it for mere worldly pelf;
  They weep and groan with apparent sorrow,
  At things they will do themselves on the morrow.
  Like crested snake in Afric’s sunny vales,
  Which shifts its skin, throws off its tarnished scales,
  So will they change their colors--seem more young,
  But carry poisonous venom in each tongue.


XI.

  The nearest of kin and expectant heirs,
  Still hoping to hold the estate as theirs
  By hook or crook--it mattered not how--
  Before the golden-calf ready to bow,
  At once they declared the “old man” insane,
  That the widow had acted simply for gain--
  A clear case of fraud! she took him by stealth,
  Expecting thereby to seize his great wealth;
  A “_particeps criminis_,” so they said--
  A divorce must be had from board and bed.
  They rushed into law, deep vengeance they swore,
  Produced affidavits--a dozen or more;
  Applied for a _Writ,_ which you well know
  Is called “_De Lunatico Inquirendo_,”
  But how to serve it--that was the question;
  They could not get into the lady’s mansion,
  For the color’d porter at window stood,
  With a shining face, in a laughing mood,
  And to the question, “Is Mr. Brown at home?”
  Would reply, “Mr. and Misses are gone
  On a southern tour;” then, with twinkling eye,
  Would smilingly add, “They’ll be home by and by.”


XII.

  But the _Writ_ was served by an authorized mode--
  Not “personal,” but as prescribed by the “Code;”
  Commissioners appointed, one, two and three,
  In matters _ex-parte_ must surely agree.
  But now he displayed both wisdom and pluck,
  His head was all right, and so was his luck;
  Sir Thomas appeared in a legalized way,
  By Counsel appeared, and presented a “_Stay_,”
  An “_Order of Court_,” which all must abide,
  The first step to set all proceedings aside.
  He said to his lawyer, a man of renown,
  “I’ll show them I’m neither a fool or a clown.
  They swore I was crazy, and out of my mind,
  An old dotard they called me--lame, halt, and blind;
  They shall take it all back! a stroke of my pen
  Shall force them to cry out Amen! and Amen!
  Having conquered thus far, possessing my wife,
  I’ll heal up old sores--prevent further strife;
  Matters now doubtful, shall by law be made plain,
  My children no longer shall curse, or complain.
  So sit down at once--do all in your power,
  To have this my ‘_Last Will_’ complete in an hour;
  The words I will dictate to you, my dear friend,
  Your wisdom and judgment, I trust, will commend.”


XIII.

  LAST WILL and TESTAMENT of Sir Thomas Brown,
  Signed, witnessed, and sealed--it was all written down

  [Illustration]

  By his dear friend, the lawyer of great renown.
  ’Mong his sons, who had boldly pronounced him insane;
  ’Mong his daughters, who called him foolish and vain;
  ’Mong his heirs, who greatly embittered the strife
  By coarsely defaming his beautiful wife;
  He gave, and bequeathed (calling each one by name),
  In trust--nevertheless, for the use of the same,
  Nearly all of his wealth, and princely estate.
  How much was reserved, it is needless to state.
  Unselfish act! Such acts are never seen
  Performed by men controll’d by hate, or spleen,
  Which, like the adder’s venom--viper’s breath--
  Are but the obnoxious messengers of death.
  Unselfish act! And that stroke of his pen,
  Forced his children to cry Amen! and Amen;
  Admit he was sane when he made his _Last Will_,
  If then he was sane, he must be so still,
  And if so still--for a moment, consider,
  Was he not sane when he married the widow?
  Respecting his wife, who took him by stealth,
  As some boldly say, to obtain his great wealth,
  How comes it, pray tell me, that in the same hour
  He signed the Will, she relinquished her Dower?
  His head always level, her heart always true,
  Let us wish them God-speed, and bid them adieu.


XIV.

  Things are somewhat reversed, when wisdom and age
  Are counted as nothing--as fools on the stage;
  If a man wants to marry--strange as it seems--
  Must he ask his dear children, still in their teens?
  Must he say to them, “_Children, please, may I marry?_”
  And if they refuse, should he raise the Old Harry?

  [Illustration]

  If a widow would marry--sometimes the case--
  Must she call in the neighbors as a preface,
  And ask their consent that she wed Mr. Brown,
  Or be laughed at--defamed, throughout the town?
  We will not attempt at this time to relate,
  The dangers attending the marital state--

  [Illustration]

  A good loving husband, with a virtuous wife
  Of course, will augment all the joys of life;
  From this stated axiom we cannot fly,
  For this self-evident truth, is not a lie.
  If Wedlock’s a lottery, as some maintain,
  Then some will be losers, and some will gain;
  If trusting to fate, or trusting to chance,
  Powerless to act, as in nightmare or trance--
  You marry a rake, or marry a shrew,
  The blame must be laid, as it should be, on you,
  For he is a fool deserving of pains,
  Who marries without consulting his brains;
  The brains and heart must work together,
  If you would sail through life in cloudless weather.




      *      *      *      *      *      *




Transcriber’s note:

    Obvious typographical errors have been corrected.

    Archaic spelling that may have been in use at the time of
    publication has been retained.



***END OF THE PROJECT GUTENBERG EBOOK THE NAUGHTY MAN; OR, SIR THOMAS
BROWN***


******* This file should be named 56538-0.txt or 56538-0.zip *******


This and all associated files of various formats will be found in:
http://www.gutenberg.org/dirs/5/6/5/3/56538


Updated editions will replace the previous one--the old editions will
be renamed.

Creating the works from print editions not protected by U.S. copyright
law means that no one owns a United States copyright in these works,
so the Foundation (and you!) can copy and distribute it in the United
States without permission and without paying copyright
royalties. Special rules, set forth in the General Terms of Use part
of this license, apply to copying and distributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works to protect the PROJECT GUTENBERG-tm
concept and trademark. Project Gutenberg is a registered trademark,
and may not be used if you charge for the eBooks, unless you receive
specific permission. If you do not charge anything for copies of this
eBook, complying with the rules is very easy. You may use this eBook
for nearly any purpose such as creation of derivative works, reports,
performances and research. They may be modified and printed and given
away--you may do practically ANYTHING in the United States with eBooks
not protected by U.S. copyright law. Redistribution is subject to the
trademark license, especially commercial redistribution.

START: FULL LICENSE

THE FULL PROJECT GUTENBERG LICENSE
PLEASE READ THIS BEFORE YOU DISTRIBUTE OR USE THIS WORK

To protect the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting the free
distribution of electronic works, by using or distributing this work
(or any other work associated in any way with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg"), you agree to comply with all the terms of the Full
Project Gutenberg-tm License available with this file or online at
www.gutenberg.org/license.

Section 1. General Terms of Use and Redistributing Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works

1.A. By reading or using any part of this Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic work, you indicate that you have read, understand, agree to
and accept all the terms of this license and intellectual property
(trademark/copyright) agreement. If you do not agree to abide by all
the terms of this agreement, you must cease using and return or
destroy all copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in your
possession. If you paid a fee for obtaining a copy of or access to a
Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work and you do not agree to be bound
by the terms of this agreement, you may obtain a refund from the
person or entity to whom you paid the fee as set forth in paragraph
1.E.8.

1.B. "Project Gutenberg" is a registered trademark. It may only be
used on or associated in any way with an electronic work by people who
agree to be bound by the terms of this agreement. There are a few
things that you can do with most Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
even without complying with the full terms of this agreement. See
paragraph 1.C below. There are a lot of things you can do with Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic works if you follow the terms of this
agreement and help preserve free future access to Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works. See paragraph 1.E below.

1.C. The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation ("the
Foundation" or PGLAF), owns a compilation copyright in the collection
of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works. Nearly all the individual
works in the collection are in the public domain in the United
States. If an individual work is unprotected by copyright law in the
United States and you are located in the United States, we do not
claim a right to prevent you from copying, distributing, performing,
displaying or creating derivative works based on the work as long as
all references to Project Gutenberg are removed. Of course, we hope
that you will support the Project Gutenberg-tm mission of promoting
free access to electronic works by freely sharing Project Gutenberg-tm
works in compliance with the terms of this agreement for keeping the
Project Gutenberg-tm name associated with the work. You can easily
comply with the terms of this agreement by keeping this work in the
same format with its attached full Project Gutenberg-tm License when
you share it without charge with others.

1.D. The copyright laws of the place where you are located also govern
what you can do with this work. Copyright laws in most countries are
in a constant state of change. If you are outside the United States,
check the laws of your country in addition to the terms of this
agreement before downloading, copying, displaying, performing,
distributing or creating derivative works based on this work or any
other Project Gutenberg-tm work. The Foundation makes no
representations concerning the copyright status of any work in any
country outside the United States.

1.E. Unless you have removed all references to Project Gutenberg:

1.E.1. The following sentence, with active links to, or other
immediate access to, the full Project Gutenberg-tm License must appear
prominently whenever any copy of a Project Gutenberg-tm work (any work
on which the phrase "Project Gutenberg" appears, or with which the
phrase "Project Gutenberg" is associated) is accessed, displayed,
performed, viewed, copied or distributed:

  This eBook is for the use of anyone anywhere in the United States and
  most other parts of the world at no cost and with almost no
  restrictions whatsoever. You may copy it, give it away or re-use it
  under the terms of the Project Gutenberg License included with this
  eBook or online at www.gutenberg.org. If you are not located in the
  United States, you'll have to check the laws of the country where you
  are located before using this ebook.

1.E.2. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is
derived from texts not protected by U.S. copyright law (does not
contain a notice indicating that it is posted with permission of the
copyright holder), the work can be copied and distributed to anyone in
the United States without paying any fees or charges. If you are
redistributing or providing access to a work with the phrase "Project
Gutenberg" associated with or appearing on the work, you must comply
either with the requirements of paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 or
obtain permission for the use of the work and the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark as set forth in paragraphs 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.3. If an individual Project Gutenberg-tm electronic work is posted
with the permission of the copyright holder, your use and distribution
must comply with both paragraphs 1.E.1 through 1.E.7 and any
additional terms imposed by the copyright holder. Additional terms
will be linked to the Project Gutenberg-tm License for all works
posted with the permission of the copyright holder found at the
beginning of this work.

1.E.4. Do not unlink or detach or remove the full Project Gutenberg-tm
License terms from this work, or any files containing a part of this
work or any other work associated with Project Gutenberg-tm.

1.E.5. Do not copy, display, perform, distribute or redistribute this
electronic work, or any part of this electronic work, without
prominently displaying the sentence set forth in paragraph 1.E.1 with
active links or immediate access to the full terms of the Project
Gutenberg-tm License.

1.E.6. You may convert to and distribute this work in any binary,
compressed, marked up, nonproprietary or proprietary form, including
any word processing or hypertext form. However, if you provide access
to or distribute copies of a Project Gutenberg-tm work in a format
other than "Plain Vanilla ASCII" or other format used in the official
version posted on the official Project Gutenberg-tm web site
(www.gutenberg.org), you must, at no additional cost, fee or expense
to the user, provide a copy, a means of exporting a copy, or a means
of obtaining a copy upon request, of the work in its original "Plain
Vanilla ASCII" or other form. Any alternate format must include the
full Project Gutenberg-tm License as specified in paragraph 1.E.1.

1.E.7. Do not charge a fee for access to, viewing, displaying,
performing, copying or distributing any Project Gutenberg-tm works
unless you comply with paragraph 1.E.8 or 1.E.9.

1.E.8. You may charge a reasonable fee for copies of or providing
access to or distributing Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works
provided that

* You pay a royalty fee of 20% of the gross profits you derive from
  the use of Project Gutenberg-tm works calculated using the method
  you already use to calculate your applicable taxes. The fee is owed
  to the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm trademark, but he has
  agreed to donate royalties under this paragraph to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation. Royalty payments must be paid
  within 60 days following each date on which you prepare (or are
  legally required to prepare) your periodic tax returns. Royalty
  payments should be clearly marked as such and sent to the Project
  Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation at the address specified in
  Section 4, "Information about donations to the Project Gutenberg
  Literary Archive Foundation."

* You provide a full refund of any money paid by a user who notifies
  you in writing (or by e-mail) within 30 days of receipt that s/he
  does not agree to the terms of the full Project Gutenberg-tm
  License. You must require such a user to return or destroy all
  copies of the works possessed in a physical medium and discontinue
  all use of and all access to other copies of Project Gutenberg-tm
  works.

* You provide, in accordance with paragraph 1.F.3, a full refund of
  any money paid for a work or a replacement copy, if a defect in the
  electronic work is discovered and reported to you within 90 days of
  receipt of the work.

* You comply with all other terms of this agreement for free
  distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm works.

1.E.9. If you wish to charge a fee or distribute a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work or group of works on different terms than
are set forth in this agreement, you must obtain permission in writing
from both the Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation and The
Project Gutenberg Trademark LLC, the owner of the Project Gutenberg-tm
trademark. Contact the Foundation as set forth in Section 3 below.

1.F.

1.F.1. Project Gutenberg volunteers and employees expend considerable
effort to identify, do copyright research on, transcribe and proofread
works not protected by U.S. copyright law in creating the Project
Gutenberg-tm collection. Despite these efforts, Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, and the medium on which they may be stored, may
contain "Defects," such as, but not limited to, incomplete, inaccurate
or corrupt data, transcription errors, a copyright or other
intellectual property infringement, a defective or damaged disk or
other medium, a computer virus, or computer codes that damage or
cannot be read by your equipment.

1.F.2. LIMITED WARRANTY, DISCLAIMER OF DAMAGES - Except for the "Right
of Replacement or Refund" described in paragraph 1.F.3, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation, the owner of the Project
Gutenberg-tm trademark, and any other party distributing a Project
Gutenberg-tm electronic work under this agreement, disclaim all
liability to you for damages, costs and expenses, including legal
fees. YOU AGREE THAT YOU HAVE NO REMEDIES FOR NEGLIGENCE, STRICT
LIABILITY, BREACH OF WARRANTY OR BREACH OF CONTRACT EXCEPT THOSE
PROVIDED IN PARAGRAPH 1.F.3. YOU AGREE THAT THE FOUNDATION, THE
TRADEMARK OWNER, AND ANY DISTRIBUTOR UNDER THIS AGREEMENT WILL NOT BE
LIABLE TO YOU FOR ACTUAL, DIRECT, INDIRECT, CONSEQUENTIAL, PUNITIVE OR
INCIDENTAL DAMAGES EVEN IF YOU GIVE NOTICE OF THE POSSIBILITY OF SUCH
DAMAGE.

1.F.3. LIMITED RIGHT OF REPLACEMENT OR REFUND - If you discover a
defect in this electronic work within 90 days of receiving it, you can
receive a refund of the money (if any) you paid for it by sending a
written explanation to the person you received the work from. If you
received the work on a physical medium, you must return the medium
with your written explanation. The person or entity that provided you
with the defective work may elect to provide a replacement copy in
lieu of a refund. If you received the work electronically, the person
or entity providing it to you may choose to give you a second
opportunity to receive the work electronically in lieu of a refund. If
the second copy is also defective, you may demand a refund in writing
without further opportunities to fix the problem.

1.F.4. Except for the limited right of replacement or refund set forth
in paragraph 1.F.3, this work is provided to you 'AS-IS', WITH NO
OTHER WARRANTIES OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED, INCLUDING BUT NOT
LIMITED TO WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY OR FITNESS FOR ANY PURPOSE.

1.F.5. Some states do not allow disclaimers of certain implied
warranties or the exclusion or limitation of certain types of
damages. If any disclaimer or limitation set forth in this agreement
violates the law of the state applicable to this agreement, the
agreement shall be interpreted to make the maximum disclaimer or
limitation permitted by the applicable state law. The invalidity or
unenforceability of any provision of this agreement shall not void the
remaining provisions.

1.F.6. INDEMNITY - You agree to indemnify and hold the Foundation, the
trademark owner, any agent or employee of the Foundation, anyone
providing copies of Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works in
accordance with this agreement, and any volunteers associated with the
production, promotion and distribution of Project Gutenberg-tm
electronic works, harmless from all liability, costs and expenses,
including legal fees, that arise directly or indirectly from any of
the following which you do or cause to occur: (a) distribution of this
or any Project Gutenberg-tm work, (b) alteration, modification, or
additions or deletions to any Project Gutenberg-tm work, and (c) any
Defect you cause.

Section 2. Information about the Mission of Project Gutenberg-tm

Project Gutenberg-tm is synonymous with the free distribution of
electronic works in formats readable by the widest variety of
computers including obsolete, old, middle-aged and new computers. It
exists because of the efforts of hundreds of volunteers and donations
from people in all walks of life.

Volunteers and financial support to provide volunteers with the
assistance they need are critical to reaching Project Gutenberg-tm's
goals and ensuring that the Project Gutenberg-tm collection will
remain freely available for generations to come. In 2001, the Project
Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation was created to provide a secure
and permanent future for Project Gutenberg-tm and future
generations. To learn more about the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation and how your efforts and donations can help, see
Sections 3 and 4 and the Foundation information page at
www.gutenberg.org 

Section 3. Information about the Project Gutenberg Literary 
Archive Foundation

The Project Gutenberg Literary Archive Foundation is a non profit
501(c)(3) educational corporation organized under the laws of the
state of Mississippi and granted tax exempt status by the Internal
Revenue Service. The Foundation's EIN or federal tax identification
number is 64-6221541. Contributions to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation are tax deductible to the full extent permitted by
U.S. federal laws and your state's laws.

The Foundation's principal office is in Fairbanks, Alaska, with the
mailing address: PO Box 750175, Fairbanks, AK 99775, but its
volunteers and employees are scattered throughout numerous
locations. Its business office is located at 809 North 1500 West, Salt
Lake City, UT 84116, (801) 596-1887. Email contact links and up to
date contact information can be found at the Foundation's web site and
official page at www.gutenberg.org/contact

For additional contact information:

    Dr. Gregory B. Newby
    Chief Executive and Director
    gbnewby@pglaf.org

Section 4. Information about Donations to the Project Gutenberg
Literary Archive Foundation

Project Gutenberg-tm depends upon and cannot survive without wide
spread public support and donations to carry out its mission of
increasing the number of public domain and licensed works that can be
freely distributed in machine readable form accessible by the widest
array of equipment including outdated equipment. Many small donations
($1 to $5,000) are particularly important to maintaining tax exempt
status with the IRS.

The Foundation is committed to complying with the laws regulating
charities and charitable donations in all 50 states of the United
States. Compliance requirements are not uniform and it takes a
considerable effort, much paperwork and many fees to meet and keep up
with these requirements. We do not solicit donations in locations
where we have not received written confirmation of compliance. To SEND
DONATIONS or determine the status of compliance for any particular
state visit www.gutenberg.org/donate

While we cannot and do not solicit contributions from states where we
have not met the solicitation requirements, we know of no prohibition
against accepting unsolicited donations from donors in such states who
approach us with offers to donate.

International donations are gratefully accepted, but we cannot make
any statements concerning tax treatment of donations received from
outside the United States. U.S. laws alone swamp our small staff.

Please check the Project Gutenberg Web pages for current donation
methods and addresses. Donations are accepted in a number of other
ways including checks, online payments and credit card donations. To
donate, please visit: www.gutenberg.org/donate

Section 5. General Information About Project Gutenberg-tm electronic works.

Professor Michael S. Hart was the originator of the Project
Gutenberg-tm concept of a library of electronic works that could be
freely shared with anyone. For forty years, he produced and
distributed Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks with only a loose network of
volunteer support.

Project Gutenberg-tm eBooks are often created from several printed
editions, all of which are confirmed as not protected by copyright in
the U.S. unless a copyright notice is included. Thus, we do not
necessarily keep eBooks in compliance with any particular paper
edition.

Most people start at our Web site which has the main PG search
facility: www.gutenberg.org

This Web site includes information about Project Gutenberg-tm,
including how to make donations to the Project Gutenberg Literary
Archive Foundation, how to help produce our new eBooks, and how to
subscribe to our email newsletter to hear about new eBooks.

